MTM-62474 Announcement regarding trailing slash after Spring Boot update (#2877)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/cumulocity-1020-155-0-microservices-sdk-spring-boot-35-trailing-slash.md

---
date: 2025-01-31
title: Trailing slash usage in requests deprecated after Spring Boot update in Microservices SDK
change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
product_area: Application enablement & solutions
component:
  - value: component-Sv2buFZ5l
    label: Microservice SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
version: 10.20.150.0
ticket: MTM-61583
---

> As previously [announced](https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/?change-type=.change-type-announcement%2C.change-type-api-change#cumulocity-undefined-microservices-sdk-spring-boot3-announcement), starting with version **10.20.150.0**, the microservices SDK uses Spring Boot 3. The Spring Boot update introduced numerous changes to the microservices SDK and subsequently to the microservices using it. Among these changes is the deprecation of the trailing slash when requesting a microservice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously [announced](https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/?change-type=.change-type-announcement%2C.change-type-api-change#cumulocity-undefined-microservices-sdk-spring-boot3-announcement), started with version **10.20.150.0**, the Microservice SDK uses Spring Boot 3. The Spring Boot update introduced numerous changes to the Microservice SDK and subsequently to the microservices using it. Among these changes is the deprecation of the trailing slash when requesting a microservice. 
```

> This change affects not only custom microservices, but also Cumulocity provided microservices and the way they are accessed, for example smartrule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change does not only affect custom microservices, but also {{< product-c8y-iot >}}-provided microservices and the way they are accessed, for example smartrule.
```

> **CHANGES** REST calls to microservices, including Cumulocity provided microservices (e.g., smartrule), must remove the undocumented usage of a trailing slash, if any. Until now such REST calls have been tolerated by Cumulocity, but with the Spring Boot update, this behavior has changed and similar requests are now rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**CHANGES** REST calls to microservices, including {{< product-c8y-iot >}}-provided microservices (for example, smartrule), must remove the undocumented usage of trailing slashes, if any. Until now such REST calls have been tolerated by {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, but with the Spring Boot update, this behavior has changed and similar requests are now rejected.
```
